Time Codes

E abbreviation for "electronic." Eruption was determined by an electronic data logger. Most electronic times are initially reported by NPS rangers or volunteers. Some electronic times have been determined by GeyserTimes users.

ie abbreviation for "in eruption." Eruption was observed, but not at the start.

ns abbreviation for "near start." Eruption was observed within a minute of the actual start time.

ini initial eruption for a geyser known to erupt in series

maj major eruption

min minor eruption

wc webcam

?  a questionable eruption. Observer thinks that an eruption occurred, but isn't 100% sure.

A abbreviation for "approximate." The "A" designation helps GeyserTimes calculate intervals. It is understood that these intervals may be incorrect on the order of hours, or, in some cases, days or weeks if the unobserved time-period was longer than overnight. This symbol has 2 uses
    When an eruption was observed, but a specific time was not noted. Later, it was remembered that it did erupt at approximately this time.
    For seasoned observers: Some geysers have tell-tale signs that they erupted. Historically, these entries have simply been labeled "overnight." That is, a geyser was in observation until night-time, left unobserved, and then observed again the following morning. Between those times, it had erupted. A known eruption occurred between certain times. It is appropriate to use the "A" designation for a time half-way between observations (in rare cases, an expert observer may choose to enter a time other than half-way between observations). "A" entries should always be accompanied by a detailed note explaining the situation to future researchers.

Other Terms

Entrant individual that entered the eruption into the database

Observer individual that observed the eruption (if different from the entrant)

Baseline A marker placed on the side of a bordwalk or trail that has been measured to be a set distance away from the geyser. By standing at the marker and measuring the angle between the ground and the top of the geyser a height can be calculated.

Observer Codes

OFVCL-EV Old Faithful Visitor Center Log - Electronic Version

RTED Ralph Taylor Electronic Data

Grand Geyser Codes

D#/ When the interval between Turban eruptions is 25min or greater there is a Turban Delay with the letter "D" and the number of Turban eruptions before Grand starts (such as D3/T2Q)

V#/ When it is time for Turban or Turban starts, and Vent overflows but Grand does not erupt, there is a Vent Delay with the letter "V" and the number of Turban eruptions before Grand starts (such as V3/T2Q)

G Grand initiated the eruption

T Turban started before Grand

* long 2nd burst (d>=1m15s)

# long 3rd burst (d>=1m15s)

C Vent & Turban continue after end of Grand

Q Vent & Turban quit after end of Grand

Great Fountain Terms

p=# or Pause=# Pause for Great Fountain's is the length of time in minutes between the 1 meter boil (which is the official start time of the eruption) and the time of the first burst that throws water out of the crater

Group Abbreviations For Unnamed Springs in Yellowstone

BBG Biscuit Basin
BSB Black Sand Basin
CDG Cascade Group
CGG Castle,Grand, & Sawmill Groups
CLC Chain Lakes Complex
CLX Culex Basin
DSG Daisy Group
FCG Fairy Creek Groups
FLG Black Warrior(Firehole Lake) Group
FTN Fountain Group
GFG Great Fountain Group
GHG Geyser Hill Group
GIB Gibbon Geyser Basin
GNT Giant Group
GRG Grotto Group	
HFG Heart Lake's Fissure Group
HLG Heart Lake's Lower Group
HMG Heart Lake's Middle Group
HRG Heart Lake's Rustic Group
HUG Heart Lake's Upper Group
IMP Imperial Group
KLD Kaleidoscope Group
LSG Lakeshore Group
LST Lone Star Group
MGB Midway Geyser Basin
MGG Morning Glory Group
MHG Marshall's Hotel Group
MMG Morning Mist Group
MMS Morning Mist Springs
MYR Myriad Group
NBK Norris Back Basin
NPR Norris Porcelain Basin
OFG Old Faithful Group
ORG Old Road Group
OSG Orange Spring Group
PBG Punch Bowl Group
PIN Pine Springs
PMG Pipeline Meadows Group
PNK Pink Cone Group
POT Potts Hot Spring Basin
QAG Quagmire Group
RSG Round Spring Group
RVG River Group
SDP Serendipity Springs
SHO Shoshone Geyser Basin
SMG Sentinel Meadows Group
SPR Sprinkler Group
TGG Tangled Geysers
THD Thud Group
UPG Upper Springs
WCG White Creek Group
WDG White Dome Group
WSG Westside Group
WTL West Thumb Lower Group
